README.asciidoc, before:

Project LED Analyzer 
===================

Subhan Waizi + 
<swaizi@hilscher.com> + 

Build status: image:https://travis-ci.org/muhkuh-sys/led_analyzer.svg?branch=master["Build Status", link="https://travis-ci.org/muhkuh-sys/led_analyzer"]


[[About, About]]
== About   

This document describes the Color Controller project which uses TCS3472 Color Sensors for wavelength and brightness detection of light emitting diodes. 
The project is intended to be used in Hilscher's internal test environment and will test LEDs on manufactured printed circuit boards.
It provides functionality to be both used in an autonomous application and in Hilscher's muhkuh test framework. 


[[Hardware, Hardware]]
== Hardware

The hardware consists of a complete ftdi 2232h chip circuit including an eeprom for company specific descriptors. All availabe GPIO pins were used to provide 
16 I2C-Interfaces which were then connected to 16 of AMS TCS3472 Color Sensors. Hardware is designed for use with light pipes. Make sure to use an intransparent case,
to reduce light noise invoked by environmental lighting. An adequate case will also enable the sensor to distinguish between measurement of light emitting objects
and measurement of environmental light by evaluating their illumination (Lux) levels. 


[[Software, Software]]
== Software 

* An interface to talk to the ftdi chips is provided by libusb v1.0.19 and libftdi v1.2. These libraries were used to write software based I2C for 16 seperate I2C-busses,
which are necessary due to the sensors' unchangable I2C-Address. The API "led_analyzer.dll" is generated alongside the build process. This API is made ready for use under LUA 
by wrapping it with swigwin v3.0.5. 

* The lua scripts handle all color related functionality, including conversions between color spaces, displaying color values in various color spaces and validation of the device under test.
Each device under test will have its unique "test table" that contains set-point entries for each LED on the board. One entry consists of a number which corresponds to the sensor number connected to the LED,
an optional name, the wavelength of the LED, saturation of the LED and (optionally) an illuminance value, given in LUX. A tolerance value must be provided for each of these testing parameters.
A LED under test will be marked as "OK" if the measured data of one sensor falls within the set-point data +- tolerances.

* The GUI Application called ColorControl will show all connected Color Controller Devices and their measured color data, including wavelength saturation and illuminance. Furthermore color sensor specific settings
like integration time and gain can be set up easily. The App displays the status of the sensors, giving various information in case any problems occur. It provides functionality to easily stimulate the leds on connected 
netX Boards. A complete testscript for a device, including the initialization of the Color Controller, initialization of the test tables and the validation process, can be generated in the application. 


[[Documentation, Documentation]]
== Documentation

An API documentation will generated along the cmake build process, in case doxygen is installed. This documentation can be found in the build folder under 'doc' and contains both
html documentation and tex documentation files. The document folder contains three documents. The first one, CoCoAPI.pdf is generated from the tex files and describes the API. 
Document #2, Development_HW describes the hardware development process of this project in detail. The last document, Development_SW describes the software development, including 
API-, Lua-, and ColorControl App development. 

[[Installation, Installation]]
The software has been built via cross-platform-build under Travis CI (Linux 12.0.4 LTS Server Edition) and can be downloaded here:
link=https://dl.bintray.com/muhkuh/Muhkuh/org/muhkuh/tools/led_analyzer/

Commit message:

hint at releases, where a complete .zip archive of the built project can be found

README.asciidoc, after:

Project LED Analyzer 
===================

Subhan Waizi + 
<swaizi@hilscher.com> + 

Build status: image:https://travis-ci.org/muhkuh-sys/led_analyzer.svg?branch=master["Build Status", link="https://travis-ci.org/muhkuh-sys/led_analyzer"]


[[About, About]]
== About   

This document describes the Color Controller project which uses TCS3472 Color Sensors for wavelength and brightness detection of light emitting diodes. 
The project is intended to be used in Hilscher's internal test environment and will test LEDs on manufactured printed circuit boards.
It provides functionality to be both used in an autonomous application and in Hilscher's muhkuh test framework. 


[[Hardware, Hardware]]
== Hardware

The hardware consists of a complete ftdi 2232h chip circuit including an eeprom for company specific descriptors. All availabe GPIO pins were used to provide 
16 I2C-Interfaces which were then connected to 16 of AMS TCS3472 Color Sensors. Hardware is designed for use with light pipes. Make sure to use an intransparent case,
to reduce light noise invoked by environmental lighting. An adequate case will also enable the sensor to distinguish between measurement of light emitting objects
and measurement of environmental light by evaluating their illumination (Lux) levels. 


[[Software, Software]]
== Software 

* An interface to talk to the ftdi chips is provided by libusb v1.0.19 and libftdi v1.2. These libraries were used to write software based I2C for 16 seperate I2C-busses,
which are necessary due to the sensors' unchangable I2C-Address. The API "led_analyzer.dll" is generated alongside the build process. This API is made ready for use under LUA 
by wrapping it with swigwin v3.0.5. 

* The lua scripts handle all color related functionality, including conversions between color spaces, displaying color values in various color spaces and validation of the device under test.
Each device under test will have its unique "test table" that contains set-point entries for each LED on the board. One entry consists of a number which corresponds to the sensor number connected to the LED,
an optional name, the wavelength of the LED, saturation of the LED and (optionally) an illuminance value, given in LUX. A tolerance value must be provided for each of these testing parameters.
A LED under test will be marked as "OK" if the measured data of one sensor falls within the set-point data +- tolerances.

* The GUI Application called ColorControl will show all connected Color Controller Devices and their measured color data, including wavelength saturation and illuminance. Furthermore color sensor specific settings
like integration time and gain can be set up easily. The App displays the status of the sensors, giving various information in case any problems occur. It provides functionality to easily stimulate the leds on connected 
netX Boards. A complete testscript for a device, including the initialization of the Color Controller, initialization of the test tables and the validation process, can be generated in the application. 


[[Documentation, Documentation]]
== Documentation

An API documentation will be generated along the cmake build process, in case doxygen is installed. This documentation can be found in the build folder under 'doc' and contains both
html documentation and tex documentation files. The document folder contains three documents. The first one, CoCoAPI.pdf is generated from the tex files and describes the API. 
Document #2, Development_HW describes the hardware development process of this project in detail. The last document, Development_SW describes the software development, including 
API-, Lua-, and ColorControl App development. 

[[Installation, Installation]]
Each commit initiates a cross-platform-build of the project under Travis CI (Linux 12.0.4 LTS Server Edition). The output of this 
build process and the CoCo USB driver can be downloaded under "releases".
